Readme.md, before:

# FYP UML Diagram Generator

## Project Overview
This project is an advanced **AI-powered UML Diagram Generator** capable of transforming natural language User Stories into professional UML diagrams (Class, Use Case, Sequence, Activity, Component, and Deployment). It uses a hybrid pipeline combining NLP (spaCy) for precise entity extraction and logical analysis for relationship mapping.

Key Features:
-   **Multi-Diagram Support**: Generates Class, Use Case, Sequence, Activity, Component, and Deployment diagrams from input stories.
-   **AI-Driven Extraction**: Uses custom-trained spaCy NER models + fallback for robust extraction.
-   **Regression Testing**: Includes a "Golden Master" verification system to prevent regressions.
-   **Deterministic Output**: Ensures consistent diagram generation for testing stability.

## UML Use Case Diagram Standards

The system enforces the following standards for Use Case Diagrams:

### 1. Naming Conventions
*   **Use Cases**: Verb-Noun phrase (e.g., "Place Order", "Update Profile").
    *   *System Implementation*: Automatically standardized by `_clean_use_case_name` (removes parentheticals, truncates "so that" clauses).
*   **Actors**: Singular nouns (e.g., "Customer", "Manager").
    *   *System Implementation*: Enforced by Normalized Entity Extraction.

### 2. Diagram Structure
*   **System Boundary**: Use Cases are enclosed in a system block; Actors are outside.
    *   *System Implementation*: `uml_generator.py` wraps use cases in `rectangle System { ... }`.
*   **Relationships**:
    *   **Association**: Solid line connecting Actor to Use Case (`-->`).
    *   **Include/Extend**: Supported textually if explicitly mentioned in narration (Note: primary extraction focuses on Actor-UseCase associations).

## Class Diagram Notation
The generator uses standard PlantUML arrow notation to represent relationships in Class Diagrams:

| Relationship | Notation | Description |
| :--- | :---: | :--- |
| **Association** | `-->` | Solid line with open arrow. Represents a general "uses" or link. |
| **Inheritance** | `--\|>` | Solid line with hollow triangle. "Is-a" relationship (e.g., Cat --\|> Animal). |
| **Realization** | `..\|>` | Dashed line with hollow triangle. Interface implementation. |
| **Dependency** | `..>` | Dashed line with open arrow. "Depends-on" relationship. |
| **Aggregation** | `o--` | Solid line with hollow diamond. "Has-a" relationship (weak/shared ownership). |
| **Composition** | `*--` | Solid line with filled diamond. "Part-of" relationship (strong/exclusive ownership). |

## Requirements
Ensure you have the following dependencies installed (see `requirements.txt` for versions):
*   Python 3.x
*   Java (for PlantUML JAR execution)
*   Graphviz (optional, for some PlantUML layouts)

**Python Packages**:
```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```
*Note: You may need to download the `en_core_web_lg` spaCy model:*
```bash
python -m spacy download en_core_web_lg
```

## Training Models (Optional)

The system uses two separate NER models for better context separation:

1.  **Behavioral Model** (`train_behavioral_model.py`):
    *   Extracts entities for Class, Use Case, Sequence, and Activity diagrams.
    *   Entities: `CLASS`, `ACTOR`, `USE_CASE`, `METHOD`, `ATTRIBUTE`.
    *   Command: `python train_behavioral_model.py`
    *   Output: `./behavioral_uml_model`

2.  **Architecture Model** (`train_architecture_model.py`):
    *   Extracts entities for Component and Deployment diagrams.
    *   Entities: `COMPONENT`, `NODE`, `DEVICE`, `ENVIRONMENT`, `EXTERNAL_SYSTEM`.
    *   Command: `python train_architecture_model.py`
    *   Output: `./architecture_uml_model`

    *   Output: `./architecture_uml_model`

If models are missing, the system falls back to pattern-based extraction (Regex).

## Running the Application

### 1. Hybrid Server (Backend)
Run the main Flask application which handles diagram generation requests:
```bash
python main.py
```
Or use the wrapper script:
```bat
start-hybrid.bat
```
The server typically runs on `http://localhost:5000`.

### 2. Regression Testing System
This project includes a robust regression testing suite (`user_stories/verify_stories.py`) that compares generated diagrams against known "Golden Masters" to ensure correctness.

**Run All Tests**:
```bash
python user_stories/verify_stories.py
```

**Run Specific Suite**:
```bash
python user_stories/verify_stories.py --suite E_Commerce
```

**Update Golden Masters**:
*Use this ONLY when you have intentionally modified logic and verified the new output is correct.*
```bash
python user_stories/verify_stories.py --update-gold
```

**Run for specific Diagram Type**:
The verification script automatically checks Class, Use Case, Sequence, and Activity diagrams if defined in the suite.

## Project Structure
*   `main.py`: Entry point for the Flask backend.
*   `uml_extractors.py`: Core logic for NLP extraction of UML elements using spaCy.
*   `uml_generator.py`: Converts extracted elements into PlantUML code and generates images.
*   `user_stories/`: Contains User Story datasets and the Regression Test suite.
    *   `verify_stories.py`: The testing script.
    *   `golden_puml/`: Directory containing the "Truth" diagrams for regression.
*   `static/` & `generated_puml/`: Output directories for generated assets.

## Notes
*   **PlantUML**: The project uses `plantuml.jar` (included in root) to render diagrams. Ensure Java is in your system PATH.

Commit message:

docs: Add Component & Deployment Diagram Notation tables to README

Readme.md, after:

# FYP UML Diagram Generator

## Project Overview
This project is an advanced **AI-powered UML Diagram Generator** capable of transforming natural language User Stories into professional UML diagrams (Class, Use Case, Sequence, Activity, Component, and Deployment). It uses a hybrid pipeline combining NLP (spaCy) for precise entity extraction and logical analysis for relationship mapping.

Key Features:
-   **Multi-Diagram Support**: Generates Class, Use Case, Sequence, Activity, Component, and Deployment diagrams from input stories.
-   **AI-Driven Extraction**: Uses custom-trained spaCy NER models + fallback for robust extraction.
-   **Regression Testing**: Includes a "Golden Master" verification system to prevent regressions.
-   **Deterministic Output**: Ensures consistent diagram generation for testing stability.

## UML Use Case Diagram Standards

The system enforces the following standards for Use Case Diagrams:

### 1. Naming Conventions
*   **Use Cases**: Verb-Noun phrase (e.g., "Place Order", "Update Profile").
    *   *System Implementation*: Automatically standardized by `_clean_use_case_name` (removes parentheticals, truncates "so that" clauses).
*   **Actors**: Singular nouns (e.g., "Customer", "Manager").
    *   *System Implementation*: Enforced by Normalized Entity Extraction.

### 2. Diagram Structure
*   **System Boundary**: Use Cases are enclosed in a system block; Actors are outside.
    *   *System Implementation*: `uml_generator.py` wraps use cases in `rectangle System { ... }`.
*   **Relationships**:
    *   **Association**: Solid line connecting Actor to Use Case (`-->`).
    *   **Include/Extend**: Supported textually if explicitly mentioned in narration (Note: primary extraction focuses on Actor-UseCase associations).

## Class Diagram Notation
The generator uses standard PlantUML arrow notation to represent relationships in Class Diagrams:

| Relationship | Notation | Description |
| :--- | :---: | :--- |
| **Association** | `-->` | Solid line with open arrow. Represents a general "uses" or link. |
| **Inheritance** | `--\|>` | Solid line with hollow triangle. "Is-a" relationship (e.g., Cat --\|> Animal). |
| **Realization** | `..\|>` | Dashed line with hollow triangle. Interface implementation. |
| **Dependency** | `..>` | Dashed line with open arrow. "Depends-on" relationship. |
| **Aggregation** | `o--` | Solid line with hollow diamond. "Has-a" relationship (weak/shared ownership). |
| **Composition** | `*--` | Solid line with filled diamond. "Part-of" relationship (strong/exclusive ownership). |

## Component Diagram Notation
Represents the organization and wiring of physical components in a system.
| Element | Notation | Description |
| :--- | :---: | :--- |
| **Component** | `[Name]` | A modular part of a system (e.g., Database, Service). |
| **Interface** | `()` | A provided or required interface. |
| **Dependency** | `-->` | Dashed arrow indicating usage. |

## Deployment Diagram Notation
Visualizes the execution architecture of systems, devices, and artifacts.
| Element | Notation | Description |
| :--- | :---: | :--- |
| **Node** | `node "Name"` | A physical or virtual resource (e.g., Server, PC). |
| **Artifact** | `artifact "Name"` | A physical piece of information (e.g., file, jar). |
| **Device** | `actor/device` | Hardware devices (e.g., Mobile Phone). |


## Requirements
Ensure you have the following dependencies installed (see `requirements.txt` for versions):
*   Python 3.x
*   Java (for PlantUML JAR execution)
*   Graphviz (optional, for some PlantUML layouts)

**Python Packages**:
```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```
*Note: You may need to download the `en_core_web_lg` spaCy model:*
```bash
python -m spacy download en_core_web_lg
```

## Training Models (Optional)

The system uses two separate NER models for better context separation:

1.  **Behavioral Model** (`train_behavioral_model.py`):
    *   Extracts entities for Class, Use Case, Sequence, and Activity diagrams.
    *   Entities: `CLASS`, `ACTOR`, `USE_CASE`, `METHOD`, `ATTRIBUTE`.
    *   Command: `python train_behavioral_model.py`
    *   Output: `./behavioral_uml_model`

2.  **Architecture Model** (`train_architecture_model.py`):
    *   Extracts entities for Component and Deployment diagrams.
    *   Entities: `COMPONENT`, `NODE`, `DEVICE`, `ENVIRONMENT`, `EXTERNAL_SYSTEM`.
    *   Command: `python train_architecture_model.py`
    *   Output: `./architecture_uml_model`

    *   Output: `./architecture_uml_model`

If models are missing, the system falls back to pattern-based extraction (Regex).

## Running the Application

### 1. Hybrid Server (Backend)
Run the main Flask application which handles diagram generation requests:
```bash
python main.py
```
Or use the wrapper script:
```bat
start-hybrid.bat
```
The server typically runs on `http://localhost:5000`.

### 2. Regression Testing System
This project includes a robust regression testing suite (`user_stories/verify_stories.py`) that compares generated diagrams against known "Golden Masters" to ensure correctness.

**Run All Tests**:
```bash
python user_stories/verify_stories.py
```

**Run Specific Suite**:
```bash
python user_stories/verify_stories.py --suite E_Commerce
```

**Update Golden Masters**:
*Use this ONLY when you have intentionally modified logic and verified the new output is correct.*
```bash
python user_stories/verify_stories.py --update-gold
```

**Run for specific Diagram Type**:
The verification script automatically checks Class, Use Case, Sequence, and Activity diagrams if defined in the suite.

## Project Structure
*   `main.py`: Entry point for the Flask backend.
*   `uml_extractors.py`: Core logic for NLP extraction of UML elements using spaCy.
*   `uml_generator.py`: Converts extracted elements into PlantUML code and generates images.
*   `user_stories/`: Contains User Story datasets and the Regression Test suite.
    *   `verify_stories.py`: The testing script.
    *   `golden_puml/`: Directory containing the "Truth" diagrams for regression.
*   `static/` & `generated_puml/`: Output directories for generated assets.

## Notes
*   **PlantUML**: The project uses `plantuml.jar` (included in root) to render diagrams. Ensure Java is in your system PATH.
